Welcome back in this lecture we're going to discuss C SS classes and ideas.
We know that we can select every element of a certain tag type in our CSSA file that is to say we can
just say select every paragraph element or select every heading one element just by referencing that
specific tag inside the CSSA SS file.
But what do we do if we only want to select some of these.
Maybe I don't want to stylize every single paragraph element.
I don't want to stylize one or two.
Or maybe I just want to specify I want only stylize a single heading one element what we've already
explored how it can use divs and spans but these options limit our structure in the h l.
If we wanted to only stylize a few paragraph items we'd have to make sure that they're all in the same
div and that may not work for us.
So the solution to this issue of wanting to stylize only a few elements or only a single element is
to use classes in IDS in RC SS every element can accept a class or id attribute.
We can then specifically connect to these classes or IDs from our CSSA with a special syntax call and
the syntax is a dot or a period for a class call and a hash tag for an id call.
Classes are used to assign a CSL style to multiple different elements throughout the h l and these elements
don't even need to be the exact same element type.
They just need to share the same class name IDs are used to apply a style to a single specific element.
That means IDs should be used for unique elements.
All right let's explore these ideas further by jumping over to the text editor.
OK here I am back at the text editor.
I have a basic but I asked him file and it's linked to this master that CSSA file which is currently
empty and this html file is linked to my browser because there's nothing in the body.
I don't see anything right now in the browser.
So let's fill it in with some extreme elements.
We'll start off with maybe H-3 heading so I'll say I'm an H3 heading and then we'll create two divs.
I'm going to create my first div and the first div I'm actually going to keep the class empty for now
and I'll write a paragraph that says I'm inside the first div and then I will create another div.
Again we'll leave the class empty right now.
We'll create a paragraph inside of this that says I'm inside the second div and then at the end of all
this I'll create one last paragraph and this will say I am a unique P outside the device save that let's
refresh our page here and I could see the H-3 heading inside the first div inside the second two.
And I mean you need paragraph outside of divs.
All right.
Let's imagine that I wanted to make this text.
I'm inside the first div the color blue and I only wanted to effect this line to be the color blue.
Well how can I do that.
Unfortunately I can't just call this pair rafted because that would make all paragraph elements blue.
And I can't just call a div 10 because that would make don't make this blue as well as blue.
So what I need is some sort of unique identifier to change this paragraph to blue.
And what I can do is use a class.
So that's where I'm going to fill in this class.
So let's give this first div a class name of first div.
I'm going to save that and unlike before when we just typed in the element tag and then curly braces
since I define an actual class name I'm going to use dot and then the class name.
And in my case I called it first div and notice how Adam actually helps us out by suggesting the name.
Then I'll have a set of curly braces and I'm going to say this color is blue.
So my colon save.
And then I refresh.
And now I see it change blue for that one that was inside the first div.
Now let's imagine I want to make the second one have a background color.
Well to do that I'll just come back here and assign it a class so I can say second div save those changes
and remember because it's a class.
And he has specified dots and then second div and let's give this a background color say background
color is gray.
You can also alternately just say background that's gray.
Save those changes.
Come over here refresh.
And now I see a background.
So what's nice about this is I no longer have to worry about referencing a specific element tag because
that could show up multiple times.
HTL.
So don't worry about specifying Div..
I also don't need to worry about specifying all paragraph elements.
Instead I can assign a class to a group of specific elements and it's really common to use classes with
these divisions or divs and then I can stylize only things that are within this class.
And so everything that's within a div Now the other alternative is to use an ID selector and I de-select
there should be used to single out a single h HTML element.
So for example this paragraph is a good candidate for it because it's a unique paragraph outside the
divs.
So if I want to add some sort of style call just to a single element all my age T.M. I can assign an
ID to this.
So within that paragraph tag I'll say ID is equal to.
And you just provide some sort of unique string name.
So for example we'll say singled out so I have this idea that's now attached to this paragraph element.
So if I save this and I only want to stylize this last paragraph element I don't need to worry right
now about calling all paragraph elements.
I just don't worry about calling ID in for IDs.
The syntax is to start with this hash tag and then the idea name which in this case was singled out
and let's change just color to be red.
Save that and then I'm going to refresh here and now I see that last line has turned red.
OK.
And that's really the basics of the selector types between classes and IDs and classes are what we're
going to be using a lot especially when we learn about bootstrap.
So if we come back here I just want to do a quick review.
You can specify this class attribute inside of a HTL elements and then to call it or stylize it from
the CSSA you just say dots and then the class name and then for IDS which are typically going to be
just a single a timeout element you supply an ID name and that the stylize it you'll say hash tag.
And then the name of the ID.
And that's really the basics.
Later on we'll learn about Bootstrap which is going to have class names or the find for us that we can
easily pass in the stylize things automatically.
But right now all you need to understand is the basic syntax you can provide class and ID codes here
about elements and then refer to them with periods for classes inside your CSSA and hash tags for IDs.
OK that's it for this lecture.
We'll see what the next one.